It's great to be here.
Thank you very much for the welcome.
Thanks, I think.
Okay, well listen,
we have got a great conference
for you guys this week.
We've really worked super
hard to put this together.
We've got over 5,200 attendees.
We're packed to the gills.
Folks from 57 different
countries are here this week.
And we sold out in eight days.
So it's taken us a little
over a month before,
but this year,
eight days we were completely sold out.
And we apologize to all those
folks who wanted to be here.
We didn't have room.
And this is the biggest place we can get.
So anyway.
Over 120 sessions this week
and over 120 hands-on labs.
And there are over a
thousand Apple engineers
that will be here this week.
So we're rolling out everything for you,
some great sessions on Mac, iPhone, iPad,
and just about everything
you'd want to know.
There's somebody here that
can answer your questions and
sessions on almost everything.
So we're very excited about
this year's conference and we're
thrilled to have you here for it.
Now, I'd like to give you a
few updates to start with.
And I'd like to start with the iPad.
The iPad's this incredible device.
Really changing the way
we're experiencing the web,
things like email.
photos You know maps video you
name it it is a whole new way to
interact with the internet with apps
with a cup with our content media
and It's going over really well,
and it is magical.
I know it because I got this email I
I was sitting in a cafe with my iPad
and it got a girl interested in me.
There's proof.
We have sold over 2 million iPads.
We sold 2 million in the first 59 days.
That's one every three seconds.
So we are in...
iPads now in 10 countries.
We just started shipping in 9 of those
10 countries in the last 2 weeks and
I put together a little video reel
with some of the press coverage we got.
So could we run that now?
Today the Apple iPad is
on sale here in Britain.
The German iPad is on sale.
It's on sale since
this morning in France.
The iPad is this tactile
tablet signed Apple.
It's the iPad of the
American Apple company.
Oh, this man.
People queuing indeed last night
to get their hands on one of these.
"Hundreds of fans met early this
morning in Paris" "Like here in Munich,
hundreds of iPad fans were thinking
about..." This is how Apple employees
welcome their customers.
from Apple virus infizier.
Moi si j'avais ça à la maison,
je ne ferais pas souvent mon ménage.
C'est fantastique.
Beau jugement,
j'ai l'impression d'être en bas du sapin.
Uns gats tip top.
Wir sind sehr glücklich,
dass wir jetzt endlich das iPad haben.
today.
We're gonna be in 19 by the
end of July and we thank
everybody for their patience.
We're making iPads as
fast as we possibly can.
So, there are now 8,500 native
iPad apps in the app store,
which is really great and of course
the iPad can run over 200,000 of the
iPhone apps that are there as well.
And these 8,500 native apps have been
downloaded over 35 million times.
And so if you divide that by
those 2 million iPads out there,
that's about 17 apps per iPad
that have already been downloaded.
That's a great number.
So we're really thrilled with that.
And again,
let me just show you some of the,
you know,
the latest apps that have been out.
Pulse, which is a wonderful RSS reader
if you haven't seen it.
Guala.
WebMD for finding out all sorts of
things about procedures in your local
pharmacy Ebay's got a great application
out on the iPad some wonderful
education applications anatomy here,
isn't this cool?
There's some wonderful
stuff that's coming out.
A lot of great games, Iron Man, Avatar,
Field Runners, Golf,
A really cool DJ app, flight tracker,
a lot of newspapers and magazines.
This is the Financial Times.
We've seen tremendous interest
from publishers of all kinds.
A lot of great stuff that's out.
And this is an app that's really cool.
It's called Elements and the Elements.
And you can just peruse the
periodic table and learn about
the things that we're all made of.
It's from Wolfram.
And a friend of mine named
Tao Gray wrote this and he sent me an
email and said that I could use it.
I earn more on the sales of the
Elements for iPad in the first day
than from the past five years of
Google ads on PeriodicTable.com.
This is what we love
to hear from you guys.
So we're doing our best to get iPads
out there like crazy and I know a
lot of you are doing your best to get
your apps out on the iPad and I think
it's a really fantastic combination.
I'd like to tell you about one
of our apps that we're updating
today which is iBooks on the iPad.
You all know iBooks.
Many people think it's the
best eBook reader in the world.
It's got this great bookshelf for
keeping your books and of course the
iBook store for buying books online.
I've got a few stats today for you.
In the first 65 days users have
downloaded over 5 million books
and that is about 2.5 books
per iPad which is terrific.
The other interesting thing
is the five of the six biggest
publishers in the US who have
their books on the iBook store.
The iBook store tells us that the
share of eBooks now that are going
through the iBook store is about 22%.
So iBooks market share now of eBooks from
these five of these six major publishers
is up to 22% in just about eight weeks.
And as we ship more iPads that number is
just going to keep going up and up and
up and we're really thrilled with it.
So, we've got some enhancements
to iBooks today.
The first is, as you know,
you can create highlights and
highlight the things you want.
You can also now make notes.
So you can make notes right
there and you can post them.
You can see them posted right
on the right over there.
In addition to that,
we've added a control in
the upper right-hand corner.
You can just tap and bookmark the page
and you can see that bookmark whether
or not the controls are up there.
And when you go to the table of
contents and look under bookmarks,
you'll see all the pages that are
bookmarked and all the notes that you've
created as well as the highlights.
So that's pretty nice.
It's an oft-requested
feature now in iBooks.
We've added another big enhancement too.
One of the biggest requests
we've gotten for the iPad is the
ability to view and read PDFs.
So we've built that now.
In addition to books,
you can now view PDFs.
And what we've done is we've put a
little selector right up on the top,
and so you can select
between books and PDFs.
When you select PDFs, you get a whole new
bookshelf just for PDFs.
And when you select one,
they just look gorgeous.
And you can navigate through them,
you can flick through them,
and they're just gorgeous on the iPad.
So PDF viewing built right into iBooks
and that's what we've done to enhance
it today and that enhancement will be
out just a little bit later this month.
So that is my update for the iPad.
Next,
I'd like to talk about the App Store,
something near and dear to all of us.
Now, before I get into the App Store,
I want to make something really clear.
We support two platforms at Apple.
Two.
The first one is HTML5.
HTML5 is a fully open,
uncontrolled platform that is
forged and defined by widely
respected standards bodies.
Apple is a member of some of these
standards bodies along with lots of other
companies and we fully support HTML5.
A lot of the technology in it
has come from Apple and Apple's
browsers are in the lead in terms of
supporting the full HTML5 standard.
So we are behind this
100% and it's fully open.
Anyone can write HTML5 apps
and have them on the iPad,
the the iPhone, the iPod Touch,
and of course the Mac.
The second platform we
support is the App Store.
The App Store is a curated platform with
over now 225,000 apps and it is the most
vibrant app community on the planet.
There's nowhere else you can
go and find 225,000 apps.
And some of them are just terrific apps.
So we have these two
platforms that we support.
And what I'd like to do now
is talk about the App Store.
Now, you've read a lot about our
process of approving apps.
Let me give you some of
the facts behind this.
Might be interesting to you.
We get about 15,000 apps
submitted every week.
That's new apps.
That's updates to apps.
Everything.
About 15,000 a week.
And they come in in up to 30
different languages that we support.
15,000 apps a week up to 30 languages.
Guess what?
95% of all the apps we get submitted
are approved within seven days.
95% of them approve within seven days.
Well, what about the 5% that aren't?
Why don't we approve these apps?
Well,
let me give you the three top reasons.
There's more,
but these are the three top ones.
The number one reason:
The app doesn't function as advertised.
It doesn't do what the
developer says it does.
So we reject it.
We say, "You said it did this,
it does this.
Change your description
or change your app,
but it doesn't do what you
told us it did." The second
reason is use of private APIs.
We're very clear on this.
Developers can't use private APIs.
Why not?
Because when we change the OS,
those private APIs are not
guaranteed not to change,
and if they change, the app will break.
And we'll have a very unhappy customer.
Right?
If they upgrade their OS and
half their apps break,
they're not going to be happy campers.
So you can't use private APIs.
And developers that use private APIs,
of course,
know exactly what they're doing.
So...
And the third reason we reject apps,
the third most frequent reason,
they crash.
So I think if you were in our shoes,
you would be rejecting these
apps for the same three reasons.
Even with all of this,
95% of these apps are
approved within seven days.
So I just wanted to give you those facts.
Sometimes when you read
some of these articles,
you think something
different was going on.
But 95% of these apps get
approved within seven days.
Now, I'd like to highlight
one of them for a moment,
eBay.
eBay came out with a great
app on the iPhone last year.
And eBay's CEO, John Donahoe,
made this statement last
week at the D conference.
We launched the eBay application
on the iPhone last year,
10 million downloads.
It did $600 million of
volume its first year.
It's going to do 1.5 billion
to 2 billion this year.
year.
Wow.
Would we all be this successful?
This is fantastic.
Well, it's my pleasure now
to show you three new apps that are
going to be on the App Store soon.
They're all in the
entertainment category,
and I'm sure they're all aspiring
to this kind of success as well.
The first one is Netflix.
Netflix on the iPhone,
and it's my pleasure to
introduce Netflix CEO,
Reed Hastings.
[Transcript missing]
That's great.
Next up, Zinnia.
Zinnia is a remarkable phenomenon.
And, well,
let me have them explain it to you.
It's amazing.
Mark Pincus, CEO of Zinnia.
Thank you Steve and Apple for
having us here today.
We're really honored and excited.
Today we'll be introducing
farming for the iPhone.
FarmVille is our most popular game
and we're excited to be finally
bringing it to the most popular
mobile gaming platform in the world.
Every day,
35 million people play Zynga's games.
That's more than the combined audiences
for the season finales of Lost and 24.
And my wife and I were
two of those people.
And she's here today,
but I won't embarrass
her any more than I have.
In the year since we launched FarmVille,
it's grown to over 70
million monthly active users,
and they're very active users.
We're proud that they've raised
over $2 million to help Haiti.
But anyway, I'll turn it over to my
colleague Jen Herman,
who's going to show
you farming on the fly.
Thanks, Mark.
This is the same farm
that I've spent many,
many hours creating and
perfecting on Facebook,
except now it's in the palm of my hand.
I've got the same decorations,
same friends, and more.
Let's zoom in and have a look.
I'm going to go over and
check out my pasture.
I've got my San Francisco style
groovy barn.
And now, let's go into the marketplace.
I can use in-app purchases
to add cash and coins,
which I can then use to go into the
market and buy things like animals.
Is that a snow leopard?
It sure is, and it's only on the iPhone.
Let's jump in and do some farming.
I can plow.
Say goodbye to harvests and
say goodbye to withering crops.
We now have push notifications.
And I want to mention for those of you
who don't regularly farm that you should.
Plug.
Millions of our Farmville
players set their alarm
clocks for 2am in the morning.
They bring their laptops to bars
and other strange places just so
that they won't miss a key harvest.
With Farmville on the iPhone
they're going to be able to
farm anytime and anywhere.
But what I'm most excited about is
how much cooler Tractorink just got.
With a simple tap and hold,
I can fire up my harvester,
quickly select multiple plots
for fast and efficient farming.
With another tap and hold,
it will automatically
select my hot rod tractor.
Here we go.
about being social.
These are my same friends from Facebook.
I can visit their farms,
fertilize their crops,
and send them gifts.
And also you may not know or many of you
do know that Farming Farmville is all
about gifting and our players send each
other over 200 million gifts every day.
It's a lot more than Hallmark sends out.
Oh, looks like Jen has a new gift now.
Let's chat.
I do.
I've got a few of my gift box.
Looks like one of my iPhone friends
just sent me a white apple tree.
Thanks.
And that's our game.
[Transcript missing]
All right.
Number three, Activision.
Really happy to welcome
the Senior Vice President,
Karthik Bala,
to tell us about Guitar Hero.
With over 40 million
units sold worldwide,
Guitar Hero is a pop culture phenomenon.
So our team at Vicarious Visions
have spent significant effort
and time to develop a brand new
Guitar Hero experience exclusively
for the iPhone and iPod touch
that lives up to its name.
Guitar Hero is about being connected.
Connected to your rock star persona,
to your friends,
and of course to the music.
Going backstage,
you can customize the look of
your rock star any way you want.
you can hop into the photo booth to
share that look with your friends.
At its core,
Guitar Hero is about connecting
with your favorite rock music.
The game comes with classic rock
from Queen and the Rolling Stones,
as well as new favorites from
Vampire Weekend and Rise Against.
We've gotten great feedback and support
from our music industry partners,
allowing us to deliver rich downloadable
content with new music to discover,
like this one from the Band of Skulls,
one of Jason's favorite new bands.
The gameplay riffs off
classic Guitar Hero,
perfectly tuned for your iPhone.
Our team of musicians have handcrafted
note tracks to deliver an authentic,
deeper connection with
your music experience.
As you can see,
we have the obvious tapping mechanics
that get you into the rhythm,
but we wanted to deliver a
richer guitar experience.
With the introduction of a
new strumming mechanic and use
of the multi-touch display,
our team has tweaked and polished
Guitar Hero to make the gameplay perfect.
We have sustain notes that can be
whammy to juice up for star power and
slide gems that let you master these
tricky hammer on and pull off combos.
Of course, if you really want to
score big and show off,
be sure to activate star power.
on leaderboards over to Facebook.
And he scored enough skill
points to level up his rock rank.
This is just the beginning.
I'm proud to say you guys can
all start rocking out today.
Guitar Hero is available
in the App Store for $2.99.
Go download it.
You know, he was playing that guitar
lead real time right there.
It's very cool.
So, three great entertainment apps
and they're going to join the over
225,000 apps on the App Store.
And I've got a few great
pieces of information to
share with you this morning.
The first is just last week we crossed
5 billion downloads on the App Store.
Isn't that incredible?
5 billion!
This next thing is my favorite
stat of the whole show today.
So as you know,
When we get revenue from the app store,
70% of it goes to the developer, right?
70%. So how much have we paid developers?
Our 70% that we've paid you.
How much have we paid you to date?
Just a few days ago,
we crossed a billion dollars.
A billion dollars.
And it is one of the
greatest things we get to do.
So let's go do it again.
All right.
And that's what makes the App Store the
most vibrant app community on the planet.
Over 5 billion downloads and
a really healthy ecosystem,
not only for users but
for developers as well.
And we're thrilled with it.
So that's the App Store.
Now I'd like to talk about the iPhone.
There have been a lot of
statistics floating around,
market research, market share studies,
and some of them are okay and
some of them are questionable.
And I'd like to just give you two
pieces of data that can help you make
your own judgments about market share.
The first one is a report
that just came out by Nielsen,
highly respected firm.
And this is for Q1 of 2010,
this just came out.
And they said,
"What is the smartphone market share in
the US?" And here's what they reported.
RIM number one with 35%.
iPhone number 2 with 28% Windows mobile
number 3 with 19% Android number
4 with 9% and other tied at 9%
And so what Nielsen said was in
Q1 of 2010 The iPhone's market
share was over 3 times that of Android
Let me give you another study.
This is US mobile browser usage,
net applications.
Comes out with this.
And this is for May.
It's the most recent data
that they've published.
This is mobile browser usage in
the US and you can see iPhone
has 58.2% of the entire mobile
browser usage in the country.
That's over two and a half times as
much as number two which is Android at
just 22.7%. So very recent data,
this may help you put
things in perspective.
So let's get back to iPhone.
In 2007, iPhone reinvented what
we think of as a phone.
It's hard to remember what
it was like before iPhone.
Carriers controlled
what was on the phone.
There were a few apps,
but nothing like we
think about apps today.
There was no free market for apps.
There was no app store.
It was really different
before the iPhone.
And the iPhone started to
change all of that in 2007.
It was a revolution.
In 2008,
we added 3G networking and the App Store.
In 2009,
the iPhone 3GS was twice as fast,
and we added some other cool features,
like video recording.
For 2010, we're going to take the biggest
leap since the original iPhone.
And so today,
Introducing iPhone 4,
the fourth generation iPhone.
This is really hot.
And there are well over 100 new
features and we don't have time
to cover all of them today,
so I get to cover eight of them with you.
Eight new features of the iPhone 4.
The first one, an all new design.
Now, stop me if you've already seen this.
I ain't seen it.
You've got to see this thing in person.
It is one of the most beautiful
designs you've ever seen.
This is beyond a doubt
the most precise thing,
one of the most beautiful
things we've ever made.
Glass on the front and the rear and
stainless steel running around and the
precision of which this is made is beyond
any consumer product we've ever seen.
Its closest kin is like a
beautiful old Leica camera.
It's unheard of in
consumer products today.
Just gorgeous.
and it's really thin
this is the new iPhone 4
It is just 9.3 millimeters thick,
that is 24% thinner than the iPhone GS.
Again, a quarter thinner in something you
didn't think could get any thinner.
As a matter of fact, it is the thinnest
smartphone on the planet.
I'm going to point out a few
of the external things on it.
Here are the volume controls, volume up,
volume down, and mute.
On the front,
we have a front-facing camera.
We have the receiver.
We have the home button.
We have the micro SIM tray.
We have a camera and an
LED flash on the back.
If we look at the bottom,
we've got the microphone,
the 30 pin connector in the speaker.
And if we look on the top,
we've got the headset jack,
we've got a second mic
for noise cancellation,
and the sweet sleep/wake button.
Because there have been a
few photos of this around,
people have asked,
"What's this?" Some have even said,
"This doesn't seem like Apple."
What are these lines in this
beautiful stainless steel band?
Well, it turns out there's
not just one of them,
there's three of them.
And they are part of the
entire structure of this phone.
That stainless steel band that
runs around is the primary
structural element of the phone.
And there are these three slits in it.
It turns out this is part of
some brilliant engineering,
which actually uses the stainless steel
band as part of the antenna system.
And so one piece is Bluetooth, Wi-Fi,
and GPS.
and the other is UMTS and GSM.
So it's got these integrated antennas
right in the structure of the phone.
It's never been done before.
And it's really cool engineering.
It's the thinnest smartphone ever.
It uses stainless steel for strength.
It uses glass on the front
and the back for optical
quality and scratch resistance.
It's got integrated antennas
and extraordinary build quality.
Again, I don't think there's another
consumer product like this.
When you hold this in your hands,
it's unbelievable.
So this is our all new
design for the iPhone 4.
That's the first one.
Second one, this is a biggie.
Something we call the retina display.
What's that?
Well, in any display there are pixels.
Here's four of them.
We start off with the retina
display by dramatically
increasing the pixel density.
Four times as many pixels
in the same amount of space.
Now why is that important?
Well let's make more pixels and let's
say we want to draw the letter A.
And this is the outside boundary
of one of the strokes of a letter,
the letter A.
Well as you can see,
we turn on pixels inside that stroke,
we can get far more precision
the more pixels we have.
and we play all sorts of tricks
by putting different levels of
gray pixels on that line as well
to try to fuzz it for our eye.
But when we zoom out of this,
what you can see is that because
we have four times as many pixels,
we get really, really sharp text compared
to what we normally get on
displays of lesser resolution.
Now the retina display has 326 per inch.
There's never been a display
like this on a phone.
People haven't even dreamed about
a display like this on a phone.
But it's more than that.
It turns out that there's a magic
number right around 300 pixels per
inch that when you hold something
around 10 or 12 inches away from
your eyes is the limit of the human
retina to differentiate the pixels.
And so they're so close together when
you get at this 300 pixels per inch
threshold that all of a sudden things
start to look like continuous curves.
Like text looks like you've
seen it in a fine printed book.
Unlike you've ever seen on
an electronic display before.
And at 326 pixels per inch,
we are comfortably over that limit.
And it's extraordinary.
So let me give you an example of
a normal display on the left and
the retina display on the right.
Look at the difference.
Can you see it?
Here's some more text of different
sizes and different weights.
You can really, really see this stuff.
Once you use a retina display,
you can't go back.
When you get to
character-based languages,
kanji in this case, it's also striking.
And it's not just text,
it's images and video as well.
Look at the difference.
This is the same image on a normal
display and a retina display.
Here's another one.
Pretty amazing, isn't it?
So what I'd like to do now
is show this to you live.
I've got an iPhone 3GS,
which has got a widely
praised display on it,
and I've got a new iPhone 4.
Let me get them both fired up here.
There we go.
And I can ask them to blow these up.
What's that difference now?
This is pixel.
We had to get special projectors for this
because most projectors can't display
as many dots as are on a retina display.
This is pixel for pixel accurate
right off these two displays.
And you can really see it.
Look at that folder there.
And let me go inside.
Look at the icon of the folder.
Compare them.
Look at the text.
Look at the linen.
Look at the icon of the compass.
The icon of the clock.
Isn't that amazing?
So now, let me go ahead.
I'm going to go to some websites.
I'm going to go to the
New York Times today.
And let's just compare these websites.
Our networks in here are
always unpredictable,
so I have no idea what
we're going to find.
They are slow today.
You know,
you could help me out if you're on Wi-Fi,
if you could just get off.
I'd appreciate it.
We're having a little problem here.
I don't know what's
wrong with our networks.
I'm afraid I have a problem
and I'm not going to be able
to show you much here today.
I can show you some
pictures in the camera roll.
Let's just go take a
look at some photos here.
Take a look at that.
Same photos.
Pretty different.
Again, same photo.
See the difference?
You can really see it around the eyes,
the teeth.
It kind of just comes down to what do
you want to be looking at all day long?
So, the retina display.
3.5 inches,
the same size as the iPhone 3GS,
yet with 960 by 640 pixels.
That's four times more
pixels than the iPhone 3GS.
326 pixels per inch.
800:1 contrast ratio,
which is again four times
better than the 3GS.
We're using IPS technology.
This is a very advanced LCD technology,
which is quite a bit, in our opinion,
quite a bit better than
the OLED technology for
these types of products.
And provides much more accurate
color and much higher resolution.
You can't make an OLED display with
this type of resolution right now.
And so we think the IPS technology
is really quite superior.
And it results in incredibly sharp text,
images and video.
Now, again, the retina display has got
78% of the pixels on an iPad
right in the palm of your hand.
iPhone OS 4 makes it so your apps
automatically run on the retina display,
full size.
but they look even better
because what we do is iPhone
OS automatically renders your text
in the higher resolution and all your
controls in the higher resolution.
So you get that automatically
and your apps look even better
without you doing any work.
But if you do a little bit of work
and open up the hood of your app and
put in higher resolution artwork,
then they will look stunning.
So we'd suggest that you do that.
So that is the retina display.
Awesome text.
[Transcript missing]
We think this is going to
set the standard for displays
for the next several years.
We don't think anybody's
going to come close.
And you know, the display is your
window into the internet,
into your apps, into your media,
into your software.
We think it's maybe the most important
single component of the hardware.
And we've got something here now that's
like the best window on the planet.
So that's the retina display.
The iPhone 4 is powered by the A4 chip.
Apple's A4 chip.
This is a chip designed by our own team.
They are really good and this is
wonderful to have in an iPhone.
Now let me show it to you.
This is the back of the iPhone.
You take the back off.
First thing you notice is the
iPhone 4 is packed to the gills.
There's a tremendous amount of
functionality in not such a big space.
And so you have to kind of hunt to
find the A4 chip but it's right there.
and let me just point out
some of the other things.
There's the micro SIM.
We went to the micro
SIM because it's smaller.
We need the space.
The radios, the connectors.
You can see that the biggest single
component in the phone is the battery.
We've been able to make the
battery a little bit bigger.
And so that's where everything is,
inside the phone.
Now, because we've been able to make the
battery a little bit bigger and because
the A4 is so good with power management,
we've been able to improve
the battery life as well.
So we have up to 40% more talk time
on 3G from 5 hours to 7 hours now.
Six hours of 3G browsing,
10 hours of Wi-Fi browsing.
10 hours of video, 40 hours of music,
and 300 hours of standby.
So we're very pleased with this.
Our environmental report card is strong.
Arsenic free, BFR free, mercury free,
PVC free, and stainless steel and glass
are highly recyclable materials.
So we're doing great there.
So the A4 chip.
A4 chip up to 32 gigabytes of storage
Quad-band HSDPA and HSUPA for 7.2
megabits per second down 5.8 megabits
per second up that's theoretical because
the carriers don't support that yet,
but as they do will welcome it and
dual mics for noise cancellation
802.11n Wi-Fi And of course
GPS plus accelerometer plus
compass so we've got some great
hardware in the iPhone 4 the A4 chip
Number four, we've got another really
cool piece of hardware.
Remember when we added the
accelerometer and how that opened
up a whole new vista of gaming?
Well, we're taking it even further
with the iPhone 4 because
we're adding a gyroscope.
A three axis gyro, which is fantastic.
Pitch rolling yaw,
also rotation around gravity.
And we've tied the gyro and
the accelerometer and even the
compass together to provide
six axis motion sensing.
We've got some new core motion
APIs that you can call that give you
extremely precise position information.
And it's perfect for gaming.
And one of the reasons it's perfect is
because it's built into every iPhone 4,
so you know it's there.
So what I'd love to do now
is give you a demo of this.
And since this demo does
not require the network,
I should be okay.
This is the little app that we
wrote and this is being run with the
accelerometer now and as you see with
the accelerometer I can tilt it from
side to side or backwards and forwards.
But I can't,
it doesn't move when I rotate
around gravity and the positioning
is good but not super precise.
So now by tapping the word accelerometer
it's going to change to the gyro and now
I get much more precise movement here
and as you see it rotates around gravity.
I'll play this game here.
And I think I'll take this one off.
Alright.
And... maybe I'll take this one out.
[Transcript missing]
Some of our amazing engineers
cobbled that together for
me to show you the gyro,
but I can't wait to see what
you guys are going to do.
I think it's going to be pretty amazing.
So the gyro joins our four
other sensors in every phone.
We now have the gyro, the accelerometer,
the compass, proximity sensor,
and the ambient light sensor.
These phones are getting more and more
intelligent about the world around them.
It's very exciting,
and I can't wait to see what you guys do
with the gyro built into every iPhone 4.
So that's number four.
Number five.
This is a great one.
A whole new camera system
built into iPhone 4.
Everybody loves to talk about
things that are very tangible
when it comes to photography,
like megapixels.
But we tend to ask the question,
how do we make better pictures?
And they're different things.
Megapixels are nice,
but what cell phone cameras are
really about is capturing photons.
Because the cameras are so small,
the sensors are so small,
the lenses are so small,
that it's all about capturing
photons and low light photography.
So what we've done is we've gone from
a 3 megapixel to a 5 megapixel sensor.
But we're using something that has been
shipping for a while in larger cameras,
but is fairly new to smartphones,
and that is what's called a
backside illuminated sensor.
It's a way of getting a lot more
photons to the sensor by getting some
of the wiring and stuff out of the way.
In addition to that,
when most people increase
their megapixels,
they make those pixels smaller.
When you make pixels smaller,
they capture less photons.
What we've done is as we've
gone from 3 to 5 megapixels,
we've kept the pixels the same size,
1.75 microns.
And so they don't capture
less photons per pixel,
and we have more pixels.
We've got a 5X digital zoom
built into the camera app.
Of course, what we pioneered,
tap to focus.
And we've got an LED flash built in.
And the pictures that we're taking
off this are pretty remarkable.
Of course,
you can do portrait and landscape.
You can see the digital zoom right there.
And these are pictures that are
taken right off the iPhone 4.
They haven't been touched in any way.
It shows you what kind of
quality we're able to get.
Again, these are completely unretouched.
These were all taken by our employees,
just called some of the
better ones that I saw.
So this gives you an example.
That low light photograph is
hard to take with any camera,
much less a phone.
So we're really happy with the photos
we're taking with the iPhone 4.
We think we've got a
great camera built in.
But that's not all.
because the camera also records HD video.
HD video at full 720p
at 30 frames per second.
So it's real HD video.
Now, we pioneered tap to
focus for still photos.
We now have tap to focus video.
And we have built in video editing for
trimming your clips right on the phone.
And one click sharing
to share your photos.
and the LED flash also will stay on to
illuminate scenes for video recording.
And so you can actually record
HD video right on your phone,
edit it right on your phone,
and then with a few taps email it,
send it in an MMS, send it to MobileMe,
send it to YouTube.
It's pretty remarkable.
But we're going even further than that.
Because what we've done is we've
written an application ourselves.
I want to tell you about this.
I want to show it to you and
to show it to you it's my great
pleasure to invite Randy Ubelos.
He's one of our incredible engineers.
He's the chief architect
for all our video apps.
I'd like Randy to come up
and show this to you himself.
Randy.
Thanks very much.
I've been working on video editing
software for a long time on some
pretty groundbreaking products.
15 years ago it was Final Cut Pro.
Three years ago it was the new iMovie.
This year I had the opportunity
to work on another one,
iMovie for iPhone,
and it's one of the most exciting
things I've ever worked on.
You can now record HD video,
edit with beautiful theme
transitions and titles,
and share your finished movies
all on the device that you
carry in your pocket every day.
It's really amazing.
Let me show it to you.
Go ahead and bring this up.
And you can see the icon there.
I'll go ahead and tap on that.
So once we bring up the application,
you get a list of all the
projects that you have.
And I'm going to go ahead
and just tap on this project.
And now I get my editing environment.
I can see the clips that
I have edited into this project
down here along the bottom.
I'm going to go ahead and rotate the
phone over so we can go to landscape.
You see I got the same view here.
And let's go ahead and do a
little bit of editing on this.
I can record directly into
the timeline if I want.
Or I can choose from existing clips
and photos that are on the device.
I'm going to go to my video bin here.
And I'll just scroll down.
Let's pick this clip.
And
Put this in and I can pinch and change
the scale of the timeline down here.
And we'll go ahead and select this
clip and now I can just grab the pin
and drag this to trim the beginning
portion of the clip to set the
length to be whatever I'd like.
I can zoom that in a
little bit if I like.
Now let's go ahead and add a photo.
So what I'm going to do
is go back to my bin,
go to my photos,
then I'll scroll down here a little bit
and we've got this weekend and SF event.
Got a nice picture here
that's got the whole group.
So I'll go ahead and choose that.
Now once I've got that in there I can
tap on it and photos automatically
get a Ken Burns effect on them.
So I can go ahead and adjust that.
I'll go back to the beginning
and I can pan around,
I can zoom in and you'll see that as we
go from the beginning to the end I'll
get a nice Ken Burns effect on them.
I can also use theme transitions.
So I'm going to go ahead to this
title and I'm going to switch it from
across dissolve to a theme transition.
And when I do that I get this nice theme
transition that'll come across on here.
We can go ahead and put a
title on the first clip.
I'll just double tap on it.
I'll select title and I'll
choose an opening title.
I'll just go ahead and tap and
I'll give it a nice title here.
So I'll go ahead and just type
in our California vacation.
application.
And once I put that in there,
one of the things you'll notice is
that it's put San Francisco on there.
The camera records geolocation
information into the video
that's been recorded,
and we pick that up automatically,
and it gets put into the theme
as you see there on the screen.
Now I'm going to go
ahead and add some music.
So I'll go ahead and I'll
bring up the audio bin.
I could bring in music
from my iTunes library,
or we also have some theme music
that comes with the product.
So I'll go ahead and
choose this playful track.
Let's go ahead and just play this back.
Now we have five different
themes with iMovie.
So I'll go ahead and tap the gear here
and I can switch to a different theme.
So I'll switch to the travel
theme and select that I'd
like to use the theme music.
And what you can see here is that
for this theme the geolocation data
has actually been put on a pin on a
map and that map slides around and
the pin moves around based on the
location that you have on the map.
And if I scroll over here a little
bit you'll see the transition has
been replaced with this nice theme
transition with some stamps and things.
So that happens automatically when
you switch from one theme to another.
So I can come back to the project
list and I can tap the export
button and I have three different
sizes that I can choose to
export all the way up to HD 720p.
And what I'm going to do now is I'm
going to show you a version of this
project that was exported out at
720p HD and what you're going to see
was produced entirely on the phone.
Recorded, edited,
rendered all completely on the phone.
00:05:00:00 - 00:05:18:00
Speaker 1 So I'm going to go
ahead and click on export.
And I'm going to go
ahead and click export.
And I'll go ahead and show you that.
iMovie for iPhone 4.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Isn't that awesome?
So iMovie for iPhone.
And you'll be able to buy this
right on your phone for $4.99,
if we approve it.
And so this is, again,
part of this amazing new
camera system on the iPhone 4.
And we're really proud of it,
and I think you're
going to like it a lot.
Now, before I begin number six, I, uh,
our guys were running around like
crazy backstage as you might imagine.
We figured out why my demo crashed.
Because there are 570 Wi-Fi base
stations operating in this room.
Okay?
We can't deal with that.
So we have two choices.
Either I've got some more demos that are
really great that I'd like to show you.
So we either turn off all the stuff
and see the demos or we give up
and I don't show you the demos.
Would you like to see the demos or not?
Here's the deal.
Let's turn up the lights in the hall.
Several hundred of these
are these MiFi things too,
by the way.
So all you bloggers need to
turn off your base stations,
turn off your Wi-Fi.
Every notebook, I'd like them to put
them down on the floor.
And all of you look around,
I'd like you to police each other.
If you want to see the demos,
shut all your laptops,
turn off all these MiFi base stations,
and put them on the floor, please.
Come on, look around you.
I mean, I'm not, you know,
I think bloggers have a right to blog,
but if we want to see the demos,
we're not going to be able to do it.
Unless we turn off all these
MiFi base stations and laptops,
set them on the floor, and then
This is a testament
to how far we've come,
isn't it?
It's incredible.
570 Wi-Fi base stations in this room.
Are we done?
Yeah, I really appreciate it.
I'm sorry to inconvenience you,
but if we want to see the demos,
this is what we have to do.
All right.
So number six.
iPhone OS 4, the most advanced mobile
operating system in the world.
The first new feature is that
we're going to rename it.
We're going to take away the
phone because it's on iPads
and iPod touches and iPhones.
So we're going to rename it iOS 4,
or iOS, and this is the fourth version.
And we're going to go even further,
we're going to give it some metal.
iOS 4.
Rolls off the tongue.
Now, iOS 4 is our most
ambitious release to date.
It has over 1500 new developer APIs.
I'm sure most of you have
been playing with this.
There's some great stuff in there.
And we're aware of a lot of
great apps being developed that
use a lot of these new APIs.
And we're thrilled by that.
There's over 100 new
user features as well.
The biggest being multitasking.
Now, you know, some people have said,
well,
you weren't first with multitasking,
and they're right,
just like we weren't first with cut,
copy, and paste.
Took us a little while to figure
out how to do it just right.
And the same is true of multitasking.
If you don't do it right,
you're going to burn battery life.
And it's nice to see some
people agreeing with us.
This is a statement that
Larry Page made just a few weeks ago.
Software running in the background,
that just sort of exhausts
the battery quickly.
Yes, it does.
unless you do it right.
And so we've taken a little longer,
but we think we've come up with a
good architecture for multitasking
along with an awesome user interface
that is just the best in the
industry for finding your apps and
instantly switching between them.
We're also using it to control
all the audio that you might be
playing as well as the locking the
rotation into the portrait position.
In addition to that, we've added folders.
Just got a great folder implementation
and a whole bunch of other things that
I'm not going to have time to demo today,
but I would like to demo these
few things for you if that's okay.
All right.
So first thing I'm going to do,
let's get it big there.
There we go.
I'm going
Play some Jack Johnson.
And I'm going to go launch mail here.
And again, you can see the quality of the
text here is just extraordinary
with this retina display.
And summertime in Yosemite.
Now I'm going to go to a web
page and find out if we really
did turn off our Wi-Fi devices.
And so again, look at the quality of
this text and graphics.
And I'm going to go ahead and
just go back to Mail just by
double tapping the Home button,
seeing all the apps that are running
here and just scrolling through them all.
I'm going to go back to Mail here.
And now I'm back in Mail.
And I can also, if I want to, again,
just go back here and
I can swipe to the right.
And there's the audio controls
for whatever audio app I'm using.
In this case, Pandora.
I'm just going to pause it right here.
And I'm in mail right now.
Let me show you a few
things in mail real quick.
I can go to my inboxes and as you
can see I have the unified inbox,
which is all inboxes.
I've got so I can switch really fast
between all my inboxes if I want to.
And I've also got threading.
So you can see the number there
next to the arrow and I can see all
of the email messages from a single
conversation in one place here.
makes it really easy to
follow a conversation,
delete a whole conversation at once,
et cetera.
Okay, now what I'd like to do is go
back to the home screen and
I'm going to create a folder.
And we've got this great new folder
system for being able to help you
organize and manage your apps.
And all I have to do is just
hold my finger on an icon until
it starts to jiggle and drag
it on top of another icon.
So I will drag this sports app
on top of another sports app.
And it automatically makes a
folder and it names it based
on the category of apps.
Now I can rename it at
any time if I want to.
And I can go back and drag
other apps in as well.
I can drag my ESPN app in there.
And I can drag a sports
game in there if I want to.
Oops.
And so now when I go in there, boom,
there's my four apps.
I can drag one out if I'd like.
And I can also take an app
out of the dock and I can even
drag a folder in the dock if
And so now I've got my folder with
me wherever I am in the system,
and I can just tap it and
see all my sports apps.
And it's really, really helpful.
So that gives you --
I provided you a brief view of just
a few of the new features of iOS 4,
but there are just tons of
new features everywhere.
So, iOS 4, multitasking, folders,
Retina display integration.
Again, we've enhanced every app we
ship on the iPhone to work
perfectly with the retina display,
super high resolution artwork, etc.
And put in all the work so that
your apps automatically work
beautifully with it as well,
even if you don't update your artwork.
Mail, a lot of new things in mail,
the biggest two being the
unified inbox and threading.
Lot of enhancements in the camera
and the photo apps to take advantage
of our whole new camera system.
Much deeper enterprise
integration and just again tons
of new features everywhere.
I wanted to hit for just a second
on the enterprise integration.
We got a lot of requests and our
enterprise customers are thrilled because
we got all of that stuff in to iOS 4.
Much better data protection,
device management,
they can wirelessly distribute
apps around the enterprise,
multiple exchange support,
deeper VPN support.
Our enterprise customers seem really,
really excited about iOS 4.
Another thing we're adding on the
consumer side is today we have
Google search and we have Yahoo as
an option that you can select.
We're adding a third
option which is Bing.
Google will stay the default,
but now you'll have one
more choice if you'd like.
And so instead of just having
one choice or two choices,
you have three choices.
You can search with
Google or Yahoo or Bing.
Each one takes a unique approach
to how they search and how
they format their results.
So again,
we're going to give you the choice.
You decide,
but you have one more choice now.
And Microsoft's done a
really nice job on this.
It's an HTML5 presentation.
They've done a great job.
So check it out.
It's kind of cool.
All righty.
So iOS 4.
And we're going to put a
Golden Master candidate in
developer's hands today.
For those of you that have
been following the releases,
they've gotten really good lately,
and we now have our
final release candidate,
our golden master candidate.
It's going to be in your hands
today if you're a developer,
and it will be out soon.
Now there's another major milestone
we're about to hit with iOS.
This month, this month we will sell our
hundred millionth iOS device.
That's iPhones, iPod touches and iPads.
A hundred million.
There is definitely a market
for your applications.
So, no one even comes close to this.
So that is iOS 4.
That's number 6.
Number 7.
iBooks we talked about iBooks with
its enhancements on the iPad we are
bringing it to the iPhone with iPhone 4
Just gorgeous, as you know.
Same controls, the same highlighting,
the same bookmarking, the same notes,
as you see on the iPad.
It's done really, really well.
Same bookshelf to keep your books.
the same PDF reading right on
your iPhone so you can get a
PDF in a mail message tap on it,
it goes right to iBooks to the
PDF shelf and you can have it store it
Click through it whenever you like.
So we're really excited about this.
And of course,
the iBook store right on your iPhone.
Now, we've got iBooks now.
We'll have it on the iPad, the iPhone,
and the iPod Touch.
This gets interesting.
What can we do with all
these products together?
Well,
I'd like to outline just a few things,
and please keep in mind that they
work across all three of these
products and all wirelessly.
The first is, of course,
you can purchase and download a
book with the iBook store to any one
of these products on your iPhone,
on your iPad, or on your iPod.
And it'll wirelessly be
downloaded right to the device.
You don't have to go through a
computer or anything like that.
Buy your book right on the device.
It's downloaded right to the device.
Now, you can download the same book to
all your devices at no extra charge.
Buy a book on your iPad,
download it to your iPhone.
Buy a book on your iPhone,
download it to your iPod and your iPad.
You only have to buy it once.
And iBooks will automatically and
wirelessly and from no charge,
Sync your current place,
all your bookmarks, and all your notes
across all your devices.
So you can start reading
a book on your iPad,
need to run out with your
iPhone in your pocket,
pick up right where you left
off with all your bookmarks,
all your notes, right on your iPhone.
Just all works.
And so that is iBooks on the iPhone,
and I'd love to give you a
Partly because I just want you
to see how beautiful it looks
on this amazing retina display.
So I'm going to open one
of my favorite books,
Winnie the Pooh.
And look at that gorgeous text.
It doesn't get any better than that.
And again,
you can just flip through the book.
And you can make a selection here.
And you can say I want to highlight that.
You could select it again and
say I'd like to maybe change
the color of that highlight.
And I could make a note if I want.
And so I could say, you know, I love
Who?
And I've got myself a note right now,
and I could bookmark
the page if I wanted to.
Put away the control -- oops, go back,
sorry.
Put away the controls.
And now if I go back to
the table of contents,
and there's my bookmarks and
my note and my highlight.
So it all just kind of works.
And let me go back now to the library.
And I'm going to switch to PDFs.
And here's my PDF bookshelf
with my PDFs on it.
So let me open one of
And I can use the just thumb
along the bottom if I want to,
or I can just flip pages
like this by tapping them.
Isn't this cool?
And again, I can just zoom into text,
pinch and zoom any way I want to.
It's just really, really nice.
Look at that.
Pretty cool, huh?
So that is iBooks.
Now, iBooks, as you know,
has the iBookstore on the iPhone,
and the iBookstore joins the
iTunes store and the App Store as
the third store on the iPhone.
Now we've gotten over 150
million accounts for these
stores with credit cards,
ready to buy your apps.
Over 150 million.
We believe this is the most
of any store on the web.
We believe we're now number one.
And these stores have had
over 16 billion downloads.
Again, number one on the web.
So, the iBook store joining the
iTunes store and the App Store,
now on the iPhone.
And that is number seven.
Why are we doing IADs?
We're doing it for one simple reason.
to help our developers earn money
so they continue to create free
and low-cost apps for users.
That's why we're doing this.
So this is what iAds look like.
Here's an app, a Wall Street Journal app,
and you'll see banners pop
into the app at various places,
depending on where you, the developer,
say you want them to show up.
And they'll pop up.
And as you know,
what we're trying to do with iAds is
we're trying to combine the emotion of
video with the interactivity of the web.
This is what advertisers have been
after in the digital advertising medium.
They want to get some of the emotion
that they use television for today
onto these digital platforms,
and we think we've figured
out how to do that.
Now, IADs keep you in your app.
The worst thing you want as
a user is to tap on a banner,
be hijacked out of your app to a browser,
taken to some random website,
and decide you're not even
interested in the product or
the service they're offering.
Then you've got to find your
app again and hopefully get
back to where you left off.
People don't click on the ads.
If people don't click on the ads,
they don't get the benefit of the
ads and you don't make any money.
So by making sure that our users
know what an iAd is with the
little branding in the corner,
they'll know that iAds don't
hijack them out of their apps.
It's built right into iOS 4.
You can add IADs to your
app in an afternoon.
Simply tell us where you
want us to place them.
Everything else is done
automatically because it's built
right into the operating system.
You don't have to, in essence,
write an app to put an ad
like this into your app.
it's all done in iOS 4.
Apple sells and hosts the ads
so all you have to do is tell us
where to put them and make money.
You get 60% of the revenues and you
get paid via iTunes Connect the same
way you get paid for your apps and
as you know we pay very frequently.
So, that's what iAds are.
Now, we've only been selling
ads for eight weeks.
We started selling ads
about eight weeks ago,
and I'd like to just tell you about
some of the brands that are going
to be advertising with us during
the second half of this year.
These folks are the ones
that have committed so far,
and let me just run
through them now for you.
Starting off with Nissan.
Unilever, the second largest consumer
products company in the world.
AT&T
[Transcript missing]
State Farm and Geico,
they want you guys to
have some insurance.
Campbell's Soup,
Sears, some great retailers, Sears,
JCPenney, Target, Best Buy.
DirecTV, the TBS network, and Disney.
and those are some of the brands
that have signed us up with us
for the second half of this year.
We couldn't be happier.
I'm really excited about this.
Now, I pulled, all these folks are
working on their iAds,
none of them are quite done yet,
but I pulled one in process,
which was a Nissan ad.
Nissan is going to use iAds to
advertise their new fully electric car,
the LEAP.
And so I pulled their ad and
I just want to show it to you now.
Again,
it's a work in process and they were
a little hesitant to have me show you,
but I wanted to show you,
so I convinced them.
So,
this is a news reader app and as you can
see their banner popped in on the bottom
and I as a user can just tap on it,
it takes over the screen and loads in.
And anytime I want to go,
I didn't want to watch this ad,
I just push this button up at
the top and I'm back in the app,
right?
So I can get back to the app instantly.
Let me go back into the ad in this case.
So they're loading up a little
bit of video and here we go.
This is the Peace Bomb.
Instead of destroying things,
it makes them better.
It was invented in the year 2411,
thanks to the anti-matter chip.
which was made possible by a new form of
helium discovered on the moon in 2236.
We got there by teleportation,
which replaced the space elevator,
which was built by the
electric spacecraft,
and it all started with the
greatest invention of the year 2010.
The 100% electric Nissan LEAF.
It's amazing how, you know,
15 seconds of video,
how compelling it can be.
So now we've got this really
cool navigator on the bottom
that as I spin it around,
it spins around the car.
And so let me show you a few things here.
I can say, oh, a new driver.
The only way you're going to be able to
register to get one of these initially
is with this ad right on the iPhone.
So if you're interested in the Leaf,
you have to get an iPhone.
and register in this ad.
So let me show you a
few things they've done.
This is very cool.
They want to show how
efficient the leaf is.
And they came up with
this really cool way.
The new miles per gallon.
And so you just tap on this,
and it shows you that a leaf
goes 38 miles on a dollar,
for a dollar, right?
A dollar's worth of electricity
in this case takes you 38 miles.
How much will a dollar's worth of fuel
take you in some of these other cars?
So you just push on the car,
and you can see.
Well, a Hummer doesn't take you very far.
Corvette takes you a little further,
a Ford Taurus a little further,
a Mini Cooper, it's kind of a cool car,
that takes you about 10 miles, a Civic,
they're not so good.
Here's a Prius,
that's probably a little further.
So this is a pretty doggone compelling
way to get their point across,
and it's fun.
And so this is what IADs are all about.
So, and then one other very cool thing
they're putting in here is the new prize.
They are going to
actually give away a car.
And so you enter through the ad.
So I can just shake my
phone and change the color,
you know.
I want a red one.
I enter to win a red one.
And it pulls my name up,
my contact information,
and I can just submit it.
And now I have entered
this contest to win a car.
Pretty cool, huh?
So that is an IAD.
I think a lot of people are
going to try to win the car.
It's a great idea.
iAds.
iAds start, we're going to turn it on
July 1st for all iOS 4 devices.
So July 1st, less than a month from now.
Now how successful have
we been in selling iAds?
Well we're new at this,
we've never done this before and
we don't know what we're doing.
But we've attracted some pretty exciting
brands and they have committed over
$60 million for the second half of
this year in the last eight weeks.
How much is that?
Well, you know, JP Morgan just revised
their study of U.S.
mobile display advertising
in the year 2010.
They just came out
with it a few days ago,
and they reiterated their number
that they think the mobile display
advertising market in the U.S.
for the whole year is
going to be $250 million.
Well,
$60 million of that is about that much.
But it's actually a little more,
because we're only talking about
the second half of the year.
And so we're looking at IADS now with
just the commitments we've gotten in
the last eight weeks to be 48 percent
of the second half 2010 entire U.S.
mobile display advertising market.
We've only been at this for eight weeks,
and we're not stopping selling.
So we think we're off
to a pretty great start.
And we'll report back
to you on how we do.
But I would encourage you,
if you're interested,
to sign up for IADS,
get the necessary stuff into your app,
and let's go put some ads out
there and help you make some money,
because that's our goal in this,
to help you earn money so you
can continue to create free and
low-cost apps to delight users.
And we think this is going to work,
and we're really excited about it.
So those are the eight things I want
to share with you on iPhone 4.
What do you think so far?
You like it?
It's, it's a, I think it's a lot more
than people thought it was.
I don't know, what do you think?
Is it more than you thought?
We're really pleased with it.
But there is one more thing.
And I think it's best
that I just show you.
I really want your wifi devices off.
Are they off?
Please turn them off if
you've turned them back on.
In 2007, when we launched the iPhone,
it was my privilege to make the
first public call on stage to one of
my best friends in the whole world,
Johnny Arve, the head of our design team.
And I'd like to do the
same on this occasion.
So I'm going to go ahead
and call Johnny now.
Hey, Johnny.
This never freezes up,
so you guys haven't
turned off all your Wi-Fi.
Come on, let's get it off, please.
Hey, Johnny, how you doing?
[Transcript missing]
You know, this is amazing.
I grew up here in the U.S.
with the Jetsons and with
Star Trek and communicators
and just dreaming about this.
You know, dreaming about video calling.
And it's real now.
Did you have this kind
of stuff in England?
I grew up watching
exactly the same TV shows.
I used to love that sort of wonderful,
optimistic view of the future.
And it's real now, isn't it?
It's real.
Especially when people
turn their Wi-Fi stuff off.
Oh, isn't it?
Because as you know,
the idea of communicating this way,
it's an old idea.
It's one that we're familiar with.
We've just had to wait.
We've had to wait an awfully
long time for it to become real,
haven't we?
Yeah.
Well listen, let's have lunch later on.
All right, I'll see you soon.
Thanks, Johnny.
All right, see you soon.
[Transcript missing]
It's great.
It's iPhone 4 to iPhone 4.
Anywhere there is Wi-Fi,
and there is no setup required you
don't have to find a server you don't
have to type in anything you don't need
a special code you don't need a buddy
list nothing you just make a phone call
You can use the front or the rear camera.
You can switch to the rear camera
so the person on the other end
can see what you're seeing.
You just switch back and forth real easy.
Portrait or landscape.
You turn your phone,
it automatically does the
right thing on the other side.
So if you have two people
wanting to talk to somebody,
you can just go into landscape and
get a little bit wider aspect ratio.
and the video and the
audio quality is great.
Now, FaceTime is going to
be Wi-Fi only in 2010.
Need to work a little bit
with the cellular providers.
Get ready for the future.
So we're Wi-Fi only in 2010.
And Apple will ship tens of millions
of FaceTime devices this year.
Tens of millions of
FaceTime devices this calendar year.
So there's going to be a
lot of people to talk to.
So FaceTime, video calling.
We're really happy with this.
We made a little video to just
show some of the ways that we
hope people will use FaceTime and
I'd like to run that for you now.
[Transcript missing]
that reminds us why we do what we do.
So FaceTime.
iPhone 4 to iPhone 4,
anywhere there's Wi-Fi, zero setup,
portrait or landscape,
front or rear camera,
and amazing video and audio quality.
Now, FaceTime is based on a
lot of open standards.
H264 video, AAC audio,
and a bunch of alphabet soup acronyms.
We're going to take it all the way.
We're going to the standards bodies
starting tomorrow and we're going to
make FaceTime an open industry standard.
[Transcript missing]
So that is the iPhone 4.
And we think it's the biggest leap
we've taken since the original iPhone.
We're really proud of it.
And I think you'll agree there's
more to it than met the eye.
So price and availability.
Well, first of all,
the iPhone 4 comes in two colors, black
They are both gorgeous.
And the price with the normal
qualifications and two year contract,
$199 in the US for the 16 gigabyte model,
same price as the 3GS,
and $299 for the 32 gigabyte model.
to also announce that AT&T is
going to make an incredibly
generous upgrade offer.
The offer is going to be if your
contract expires any time during 2010,
you are immediately eligible for
a new iPhone 4 at the same $199,
$299 prices if you top up
your contract to two years.
So you can get up to six months
early eligibility for an iPhone 4.
If your contract expires
any time this calendar year,
you top up your contract to
two years and you can buy an
iPhone 4 for the same price,
$199 or $299.
So we're thrilled about that.
Now, what's our lineup look like?
Well, today, or yesterday,
it was the iPhone 3G
at 8 gigabytes for $99,
the 3GS, 16 for $199.
Well, we're going to just add iOS 4
to the 3GS and slide it on over.
And an 8-gigabyte 3GS for $99,
16-gigabyte iPhone 4 for $199,
and of course, the 32 for $299.
This is our new lineup.
And these go on sale June 24th.
Pre-orders start a week from tomorrow,
June 15th.
Now, on June 24th,
we're going to be shipping
in five countries.
The US, France, Germany, the UK,
and Japan.
But in July, we're going to be shipping
in 18 more countries.
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea,
Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland.
In August,
we're going to add 24 more countries,
and in September we're
going to add 40 more,
so that by the end of September we
are shipping in 88 countries.
This will be our fastest rollout ever.
A few accessories that I'd
like to tell you about.
The first, very simple one, a dock.
Real nice dock for the iPhone 4, $29.
The other is just like
we did with the iPad.
We took a crack at
doing a case ourselves.
We're pretty happy with the results.
We call it a bumper.
And it goes around the iPhone 4.
It's got these really nice metal controls
so they pass through the plastic.
The back is open so you have the
camera and you can see our logo.
And they protect the phone very well.
And they come in colors.
And so they are real nice,
and they are $29 as well.
And I'd like to talk for a
minute about iOS 4 upgrades.
We will be offering iOS 4
upgrades for the iPhone 3GS,
the iPhone 3G, but again,
not all the features are supported.
The hardware just won't support the
kind of experience for multitasking
that we would like to see,
so that will not be supported on the 3G.
But many things will be.
And the iPod Touch, again,
not all the features will
be supported on every model,
and it excludes the first generation,
because again,
the hardware will just not support it.
And the great news here is that
upgrades for all these products
will be free on June 21st.
We finally found a way to get
these upgrades for free to our
iPod Touch customers and we
couldn't be happier about that.
So that is iOS 4 and of
course the new iPhone 4.
Now we put together a video to kind of
try to summarize all the features of the
iPhone 4 and I'd like to run that now.
iPhone 4 is so much more than
just another new product.
I mean, this will have a lasting impact
on the way that we actually
connect with each other.
In 2007, the iPhone reinvented the phone.
In 2008, the iPhone 3G brought
faster 3G networking and
the revolutionary App Store.
In 2009, the iPhone 3GS was twice
as fast and brought out new
features like video recording.
For 2010,
the iPhone 4 is the biggest leap
forward since the original iPhone.
We're introducing the amazing
Retina display and we're bringing
video calling to the world.
And we call it FaceTime.
It's going to change the
way we communicate forever.
The very first time
I had a FaceTime call,
I was blown away.
Because it is amazingly engaging,
personal.
It's all about connecting people.
I think of my own children, like seven,
eight years, they'll be off at college.
And I can imagine being able
to call them and see them,
but also look into their eyes and
see how are they really doing.
What makes it even better is
that it switches from the front
camera to the back camera.
So you can show someone
what you're seeing.
And because it's so mobile as your phone,
you'll be able to chat
anywhere there's Wi-Fi.
But what's amazing is every
time I've been using it,
you can't help but smile and go,
"I can't believe this is real.
This is actually happening."
Another thing we're really
excited about on the new
iPhone 4 is the retina display.
It's the highest resolution
display ever built into a phone.
At 326 pixels per inch,
you get four times the pixels as before.
So instead of the fuzziness
of individual pixels,
you get smooth,
continuous shapes and tone.
You have something that looks
to your eye like you're holding
a printed page in your hand.
And the level of fine detail
in images is just incredible.
Another thing that adds to the sharpness
and clarity is optical lamination.
That's a very precise technical process
that laminates the cover glass to the
display and eliminates light refraction.
So all of the hard work that's
been put into this ultra high
resolution display is presented
with the most visual clarity.
On top of that we use IPS technology
and LED backlight so you get the most
vivid experience in everything you do.
The display on the iPhone is blow away.
can show more detail than you've
ever seen on any device before.
The text is just perfect.
iPhone 4 enables
multitasking for all apps.
You can now quickly switch between
applications and everything
is exactly as you left it.
If you're like me and you have
lots of apps on your phone,
you'd love a way to easily
organize them and find them.
And that's exactly what
folders does for you.
Take an app and drag it onto another
app and it automatically creates
a folder intelligently named with
the type of apps you're grouping.
Mail on iPhone 4 is incredibly efficient.
You can see all the messages
from multiple accounts in
a single unified inbox.
And it allows you to organize all of
the messages in your inbox by thread.
So you can deal with a
single topic altogether.
Pictures taken with a five
megapixel camera look amazing.
And we even have an LED flash so
you can take photos in low light.
Plus the camera captures full
720p high-resolution images.
video at up to 30 frames per second.
Not only can you record great video,
but you can also edit your video
right on your iPhone with iMovie.
The iPhone, for a user, it is simplicity,
it is easy to use.
Behind it is intense technology.
What's running all this incredible
software is our A4 chip.
It's custom designed silicon,
and what that gets you is
remarkable speed and efficiency
in a really small chip.
The one thing we made
larger was the battery.
In fact, iPhone 4 delivers up
to 40% more talk time.
We started with
completely opposing goals.
We wanted to make this
iPhone more capable.
We wanted to add more features.
And yet at the same time,
we wanted to make it
smaller and even thinner.
And that led to some really
surprising innovation.
We developed an entirely new grade
of stainless steel that after
machining is incredibly strong,
but also remarkably precise.
The steel frame functions as the antenna,
but also the primary structure,
giving us more internal volume.
We also developed a custom
glass that's comparable in
strength to sapphire crystal,
but about 30 times harder than plastic.
This glass is not only used
on the front of the phone,
but also on the back.
The quality of the materials,
the manufacturing precision,
the advanced technology,
ultimately all of this becomes relevant
when you just hold it in your hand.
Even if FaceTime were the only
new feature we're delivering,
this would be an amazing new iPhone.
But it's the fact that we've
got the Retina display,
5 megapixel camera,
high def video recording, A4 chip,
bigger battery, all in a thinner product.
This is going to change everything.
All over again.
I put up this slide a
little earlier this year,
and to me it represents
what Apple's all about.
Apple's not just a technology company.
Even though we have and invent some of
the highest technology in our industry,
it's more than that.
It's the marriage of that plus,
if you will,
the humanities or the liberal
arts that distinguishes Apple.
It's the hardware and the
software working together.
Coming up with A4 chips that
work with the software to give us
these incredible battery lives.
It's not just a great new camera
system built into the iPhone 4,
but it's the video editing software
built in and iMovie for iPhone
that really takes it the distance
and gives you a complete solution.
It's not just a front-facing camera.
It's a front-facing camera and 18
months worth of work to come up with
software that you'll never even notice
when you want to place a video call.
It's the complete solution.
So that all of us don't have
to be system integrators.
And I am so proud of the teams
that have made this product.
It's really extraordinary.
And I urge you to get your hands
on one and see for yourself.
So before we end today,
I'd like to just say thanks to the teams
that have worked their tails off for the
last 18 months to create the iPhone 4.
Mark Papermaster and his hardware team,
Can you guys please stand up?
[Transcript missing]
Scott Forrestal and our
remarkable iOS software team.
All of this wouldn't make any difference
if we couldn't build a ton of them.
Tim and our operations team, Jeff,
stand up please.
[Transcript missing]
This is our new baby.
I hope you love it as much as we do.
Thank you very much.